language reference entry for non-extending subtypes (#6592)
github/codeql: docs/codeql/ql-language-reference/types.rst

#. The keyword ``class``. 
#. The name of the class. This is an `identifier <https://codeql.github.com/docs/ql-language-reference/ql-language-specification/#identifiers>`_ 
   starting with an uppercase letter.

> #. The base types that the class is derived from via `extends` and/or `instanceof`

Author: done in commit 5

   must :ref:`override <overriding-member-predicates>` those definitions to avoid ambiguity.
   :ref:`Super expressions <super>` are often useful in this situation.

.. _instanceof-extensions:

Non-extending subtypes
======================

Besides extending base types, classes can also declare `instanceof` relationships with other types.

.. code-block:: ql

    class Foo extends int {
      Foo() { this in [1 .. 10] }

      string foo_method() { result = "foo" }
    }

>     class Bar extends int instanceof Foo {

Author: done in commit 7

      string bar_method() { result = super.foo_method() }
    }

In this example, the characteristic predicate from `Foo` also applies to `Bar`.
However, `foo_method` is not exposed in `Bar`, so the query `select any(Bar b).foo_method()`
results in a compile time error. Note from the example that it is still possible to access
methods from instanceof supertypes from within the specialising class with the `super` keyword.

> Crucially, the base class methods are not just hidden. The extension relationship is severed.

Author: done in commit 6, although I removed "in any way" because that seemed to be overstating things a bit

> This has deep implications on method resolution when complex class hierarchies are involved.

Author: done in commit 4

The following example demonstrates this.

.. code-block:: ql

    class Interface extends int {
      Interface() { this in [1 .. 100] }
      string foo() { result = "" }
   }

    class Foo extends Interface {
      Foo() { this in [1 .. 10] }
      override string foo() { result = "foo" }
    }

    class Bar extends Interface instanceof Foo {
      override string foo() { result = "bar" }
    }

> 

Author: I have opened an issue (https://github.com/github/codeql-coreql-team/issues/1513) for the implementation bug.

I attempted to take your example, but the `toString` methods became messy. Does the following make sense to you?
```
    class Interface extends int {
      Interface() { this in [1 .. 10] }
      string foo() { result = "" }
   }

    class Foo extends int {
      Foo() { this in [1 .. 5] }
      string foo() { result = "foo" }
    }

    class Bar extends Interface instanceof Foo {
      override string foo() { result = "bar" }
    }
```

> 

Author: The implementation bug should be fixed now: https://github.com/github/semmle-code/pull/40188

   must :ref:`override <overriding-member-predicates>` those definitions to avoid ambiguity.
   :ref:`Super expressions <super>` are often useful in this situation.

.. _instanceof-extensions:

Non-extending subtypes
======================

Besides extending base types, classes can also declare `instanceof` relationships with other types.

.. code-block:: ql
    class Foo extends int {
      Foo() { this in [1 .. 10] }

      string foo_method() { result = "foo" }
    }

    class Bar extends int instanceof Foo {
      string bar_method() { result = super.foo_method() }
    }

In this example, the characteristic predicate from `Foo` also applies to `Bar`.
However, `foo_method` is not exposed in `Bar`, so the query `select any(Bar b).foo_method()`
results in a compile time error. Note from the example that it is still possible to access
methods from instanceof supertypes from within the specialising class with the `super` keyword.

> Crucially, the base class methods are not just hidden.
> Instead, the extension relationship is sewered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crucially, the base class methods are not just hidden. The extension relationship is severed.
```

   must :ref:`override <overriding-member-predicates>` those definitions to avoid ambiguity.
   :ref:`Super expressions <super>` are often useful in this situation.

.. _instanceof-extensions:

Non-extending subtypes
======================

Besides extending base types, classes can also declare `instanceof` relationships with other types.

> Declaring a class as `instanceof Foo` is roughly equivalent to saying `this instanceof Foo` the charpred.

Reviewer 2: I spotted a missing 'in'. I also assume we don't typically use the 'charpred' abbreviation in public docs.

```suggestion
Declaring a class as `instanceof Foo` is roughly equivalent to saying `this instanceof Foo` in the characteristic predicate .
```
